One morning, as Gregor Samsa was waking up from anxious dreams, he
discovered that in bed he had been changed into a monstrous vermin.
He lay on his armour-hard back and saw, as he lifted his head up a little,
his brown, arched abdomen divided up into rigid bow-like sections.
From this height the blanket, just about ready to slide off completely,
could hardly stay in place. His numerous legs, pitifully thin in comparis-
on to the rest of his circumference, flickered helplessly before his eyes.
"What's happened to me?" he thought. It was no dream. His room, a
proper room for a human being, only somewhat too small, lay quietly
between the four well-known walls. Above the table, on which an un-
packed collection of sample cloth goods was spread out—Samsa was a
travelling salesman—hung the picture which he had cut out of an illus-
trated magazine a little while ago and set in a pretty gilt frame. It was a
picture of a woman with a fur hat and a fur boa. She sat erect there, lift-
ing up in the direction of the viewer a solid fur muff into which her en-
tire forearm had disappeared.
Gregor's glance then turned to the window. The dreary weather—the
rain drops were falling audibly down on the metal window
ledge—made him quite melancholy. "Why don't I keep sleeping for a
little while longer and forget all this foolishness," he thought. But this
was entirely impractical, for he was used to sleeping on his right side,
and in his present state he couldn't get himself into this position. No
matter how hard he threw himself onto his right side, he always rolled
again onto his back. He must have tried it a hundred times, closing his
eyes so that he would not have to see the wriggling legs, and gave up
only when he began to feel a light, dull pain in his side which he had
never felt before.
"O God," he thought, "what a demanding job I've chosen! Day in, day
out, on the road. The stresses of selling are much greater than the work
going on at head office, and, in addition to that, I have to cope with the
problems of travelling, the worries about train connections, irregular bad
food, temporary and constantly changing human relationships which
3
never come from the heart. To hell with it all!" He felt a slight itching on
the top of his abdomen. He slowly pushed himself on his back closer to
the bed post so that he could lift his head more easily, found the itchy
part, which was entirely covered with small white spots—he did not
know what to make of them and wanted to feel the place with a leg. But
he retracted it immediately, for the contact felt like a cold shower all over
him.
He slid back again into his earlier position. "This getting up early," he
thought, "makes a man quite idiotic. A man must have his sleep. Other
travelling salesmen live like harem women. For instance, when I come
back to the inn during the course of the morning to write up the neces-
sary orders, these gentlemen are just sitting down to breakfast. If I were
to try that with my boss, I'd be thrown out on the spot. Still, who knows
whether that mightn't be really good for me? If I didn't hold back for my
parents' sake, I'd have quit ages ago. I would've gone to the boss and
told him just what I think from the bottom of my heart. He would've
fallen right off his desk! How weird it is to sit up at that desk and talk
down to the employee from way up there. The boss has trouble hearing,
so the employee has to step up quite close to him. Anyway, I haven't
completely given up that hope yet. Once I've got together the money to
pay off my parents' debt to him—that should take another five or six
years—I'll do it for sure. Then I'll make the big break. In any case, right
now I have to get up. My train leaves at five o'clock."
He looked over at the alarm clock ticking away by the chest of draw-
ers. "Good God!" he thought. It was half past six, and the hands were go-
ing quietly on. It was past the half hour, already nearly quarter to. Could
the alarm have failed to ring? One saw from the bed that it was properly
set for four o'clock. Certainly it had rung. Yes, but was it possible to
sleep through that noise which made the furniture shake? Now, it's true
he'd not slept quietly, but evidently he'd slept all the more deeply. Still,
what should he do now? The next train left at seven o'clock. To catch that
one, he would have to go in a mad rush. The sample collection wasn't
packed up yet, and he really didn't feel particularly fresh and active.
And even if he caught the train, there was no avoiding a blow-up with
the boss, because the firm's errand boy would've waited for the five
o'clock train and reported the news of his absence long ago. He was the
boss's minion, without backbone or intelligence. Well then, what if he re-
ported in sick? But that would be extremely embarrassing and suspi-
cious, because during his five years' service Gregor hadn't been sick even
once. The boss would certainly come with the doctor from the health